# Automated orchestration of virtualized mobile core network deployments.

## Repository containing Ansible playbooks used to automate deployment of Free5GC and Open5GS. 

As we move towards an era of on-demand deployment and increasingly complex use cases like vehicle to anything (V2X) communication, Industry 4.0, temporary mobile networks for mass events, and Information Centric Networking, automated orchestration of virtualized mobile core networks becomes an inevitable and essential component. That is why, in this repository, we address challenges of dynamic and robust provisioning of the 5G core network. Specifically, we provide automation scripts as a part of a comprehensive Proof-of-Concept testbed of automated virtualized deployment.

In out PoC testbed, we equipped the VMs with Docker, Kubernetes, Helm, and Ansible tools, which were utilized to automate the deployment process. Docker was used as software that divides a monolithic application into several containers by configuring and building them. These containers were deployed with the use of Kubernetes, which further also ensures connectivity between them. To accelerate deployment, we leveraged Helm charts and adapted them to the underlying network conditions within the ESXi host. This approach enabled us to deploy Free5GC and Open5GS within seconds. The cluster formation, application deployment, and Helm chart deployment were achieved using original Ansible playbooks available in this repository. These efforts significantly reduced the time needed to prepare the environment from hours to minutes. 

Ansible playbooks, available in the this repository, play an important role in the automation process. They speed up the deployment process of the whole core network by executing a set of commands on the remote system. Playbooks are responsible for managing and deploying all configuration items, which can not be embedded into the virtual machine's image and would typically have to be configured manually. Thus, a tool similar to the Ansible is an inevitable part of the automated service orchestration in the context of mobile core networks. We developed four Ansible playbooks that facilitate 5G core network deployment (two playbooks for each mobile core implementation). The first playbook creates a Kubernetes cluster on the virtual machine, edits Helm charts, and deploys the 5G core network using the charts. The second one sets up the UERANSIM subscriber.
